7-03-20 Big Diamond Speedway: (Written 12-21-20)
The penultimate Pennsylvania Speedweek race tonight was at William’s Grove but I decided to check out a track I’d never been before (and maybe see someone other than Kyle Larson win a feature). I opted for Big Diamond Speedway, a ⅜ mile dirt track in Pottsville, PA. The drive to the track is through some small towns and two lane roads through the woods and it felt like it was much more in the middle of nowhere than it actually was.

As I arrived I followed the water truck as it was wetting down the parking lot. I arrived about 10 minutes before gates opened and there was a decently long line for tickets despite there being seemingly few cars in the parking lot. It went quick though, and they opened the gates pretty close to on time.

I bought my ticket and went in the gates. The main concourse is at the level of the entrance and the majority of the grandstands are below that, with one section above on the turn 4 end of the frontstretch. I decided to sit in the elevated grandstands, finding a nice spot on the top row. I do think the majority of the seats would have a nice view of the whole track. I always like tracks that are situated below the level of the grandstands as it tends to make for very nice views.

There were two cars on display on the main concourse, a modified and a USAC East Coast 360 sprint car. I don’t know that I’d taken a look at either of those cars up close before and it was neat to inspect how they’re actually put together. Sprint cars are so simple in construction, there’s not much beyond the chassis, motor, and wheels. I had read somewhere a couple weeks ago that center-steer modifieds are basically full bodied sprint cars and I really do see it now. The wheelbase is wider and the geometry is different, but the basic structure is pretty much the same. Kind of makes sense why I tend to enjoy both sprint cars and modifieds more than late models.

Right as I settled back into my seat I noticed the black clouds rolling in overhead. I hadn’t noticed anything worrisome when I’d checked the week’s radar a few days ago but there was definitely something passing through now. The track made the always unfortunate announcement that everyone needed to leave the grandstands and take shelter in their car as the storm blew in, bringing surprisingly heavy rain and high winds, with an occasional bolt of lightning. Fortunately, it didn’t last long, I was back in the grandstands in under an hour.

There was a lot of track work to do due to all the moisture. One of the water trucks was a full size tractor-trailer and it had some real difficulties doing the track packing as the banking combined with the wet muddy surface caused the trailer to keep slipping down the track, sliding along behind the cab at over a 30 degree angle.

Eventually they worked the track in enough to bring out the cars. Many of the full bodied cars came out to help with the packing and they eventually got hot laps going less than two hours after the scheduled start of the event, a pretty good achievement for the volume of rain we got.

The roadrunners started the hot laps. Coming from the Northeast I’m used to roadrunners referring to 4 cylinder cars so I was really happy to see full-size street stocks here. The track was still so wet that there were multiple spins throughout the hot laps sessions and it looked like they could barely put the throttle down halfway, even down the straights. It was probably the wettest track I’ve ever seen racing on.

The track got progressively better throughout the modified and sportsman hot laps and into the sprint cars. The racing throughout was very good. Looking at the track on Google Maps it looked like a half mile and I always worry about half mile tracks leading to strung out racing, but it turned out to be a 3/8th mile and very competitive. Multiple grooves opened up the entire night and the racing was very entertaining. The car counts were great too, with over 30 modifieds, full fields of sportsman and roadrunners, and 19 sprint cars. 

The sprint car feature was the second to last of the night and featured one of the wildest wrecks I’ve ever seen in person. One car caught the bike going into 3 and went over, tumbling multiple times, bouncing off the top of the wall and flying out of sight down the embankment outside of the track. I was on my feet screaming when that happened, it was wild. The driver was totally fine and the car didn’t look nearly as bad as I would have expected after they spent quite a long time retrieving it.

The roadrunner feature rounded out the night. They were entertaining when they were racing but they really struggled to string even two contiguous laps together. There must have been 10+ cautions in the 20 lap race.

When they finally managed to take the checkered flag I headed straight out to my car to take off. Many people had left after the modified or sprint car race because it was so late, but there were a surprising number still there for the roadrunners. It was 2am when they finished. I drove the 6 hours straight home afterward, getting home around 8am. I might have slept in my car for a bit before embarking but I was planning on going to the Whelen Modified tour in New Hampshire tomorrow evening and needed to be back in time to head out to that. It was worth staying for the completion of the event though. Big Diamond put on a great show in a nice facility that exceeded my modest expectations of it. I would happily come back, and would particularly love to see sprint cars there again.
;

8-23-20 Indiana State Fairgrounds: (Written 12-21-20)
I got up early this morning after a late night last night, getting in from Lucas Oil Speedway really late. I was staying with my brother in St. Louis so it was about a 4 hour drive over to Indianapolis.

After a couple wrong turns I found the correct part of the fairgrounds that led into the racetrack. I was expecting a large crowd since last year this race wasn’t supposed to even be happening but there was basically no one there when I arrived. I had my pick of places to sit and it was a real struggle figuring out where I wanted to be. It really came down to compromise, there didn’t seem to be anywhere optimal. Sit in the lower sections and you could see the entire front stretch and the exit of 4 and entrance of 1, but lost quite a bit of the backstretch due to the low vantage point. Moving up higher, the backstretch was visible and most of the turns but there was a big building built right up to the wall on the exit of 4 and going down some of the frontstretch that blocked that area from view. The exit of 4 is generally one of my priorities as far as things I definitely want to be able to see, but I ultimately decided that seeing the entire backstretch was worth the sacrifice.

I made sure to get to the grandstands in time to watch the Indianapolis 500 that was taking place just a few miles away. It was painful being so close in geography and not being allowed to watch it but it was a unique experience to view it on the big screens from the grandstands at the Indy Mile. Silver Crown practice started during the 500 so I spent a while trying to watch both at once. They had to turn off the TV sound during practice so I was texting back and forth with my brother who was watching it on TV back home and he gave me updates about things I couldn’t hear. I also moved around a lot trying to optimize TV viewing with track viewing, and eventually just left my backpack to mark my spot up high and moved down low to watch the 500.

After the huge wreck at the entrance of pit road the 500 ended under caution. Not too long afterward racing started at the Fairgrounds with Silver Crown qualifying. Kyle Larson was .424 seconds faster than the entire rest of the field. I can’t say I’m surprised given his year so far but that’s just a massive margin.

There were over 30 cars that signed in so they ran a fairly tame semi feature to set the starting grid for the Hoosier Hundred. There was drama even before the cars even got on the grid for the feature though, as a number of cars made unapproved adjustments and had to go to the back, including pole sitter Kyle Larson. He started back in 24th and made his way all the way up to 4th position in only 8 laps, it was truly impressive to watch him work his way through the field with seemingly no effort.

A car got into the wall on the exit of 4 and brought out the caution on lap 8. On the restart, some cars got together on the backstretch exiting 2 and caused a big pileup, resulting in multiple cars getting upside down! Point leader Kody Swanson was involved in that wreck, ending his day.

After a lengthy cleanup they got back under green but only completed one lap before there was another incident. In the same spot as before, exiting turn 2, there was more contact and two more cars got turned upside down. One ended up resting on the inside guardrail and Brady Bacon got turned up the track and flipped into the outside wall. I never expected that four cars would flip in a race like this where there usually isn’t a particularly large amount of contact.

They only ran until lap 15 before another caution for a car getting into the wall. Meanwhile Larson was steadily working his way forward, making it to the lead by lap 25, meaning he passed a car a lap every lap of the race so far. 

Just a few laps later a car got high exiting 4 and got hard into the wall. I believe he flipped multiple times, but as I mentioned earlier, I couldn’t actually see that portion of the track. Everything I could see about the dust flying and the reflections was consistent with the car flipping, and they did go red afterward. 

After that cleanup, it had taken an hour and 15 minutes to complete one third of the race. There was a lot of attrition too, between wrecks and mechanical issues, and a full half the field was out of the race by around the halfway point. 

On the restart, Larson had been cycled back a bit and made a very exciting pass for the lead. He drove hard into turn 1 and forced his way past CJ Leary for the position, making room where it didn’t look like there was any to be had. Once he got out front he held it pretty solidly to take the win.

At one point later in the race, a light went out in turn 1. It was distinctly dark, I was really wondering if they were going to have to throw the caution while they got it sorted out but they kept going and just ran with it for the rest of the race.

It’s really wild how good of a year Kyle Larson is having. He’s won in everything and I’ve seen him win personally at least 8 times in the limited races I’ve been to. The event as a whole was really neat for all the history behind it. I really regretted not going to the Hoosier Hundred last year when it was presumed to be the last one, and I’m glad that racing is back at least for now at the famed fairgrounds. There’s so much history to the event and I’m glad I was able to experience it. The race was also way better than my expectations. I came in with pretty low expectations due to the large track, single file racing, and general lack of contact and crashes, but it was a remarkably good race. It probably exceeded my expectations more so than maybe any event I’ve gone to before.
;

11-06-20 Bridgeport Motorsports Park:
Bridgeport first day. First time entering facility at night.
Another paragraph.

;


6-19-20 Tri-State Speedway: (Written 12-22-20)
Indiana Midget Week was originally scheduled to race on the red clay of Bloomington this evening but that was unfortunately canceled due to Covid restrictions. I’ll have to make sure to add Bloomington into a future trip - it looks like a really exciting track. USAC decided to add a second Lincoln Park date instead, so I decided to check out somewhere I hadn’t been before and I made the two and a half hour drive to the southwest corner of Indiana where Tri-State Speedway is nestled between corn fields out in the middle of nowhere. The World of Outlaws Sprint Cars were on tap for the first day of their two-day event. This would be only the third time I’d seen the World of Outlaws, and only the second time I can remember since I was 6 when I watched them in Vegas. 

Tri-State is set up basically in a field with the track at an angle to the roadways and parking around it. It wasn’t entirely clear where I was allowed to park versus what was out of bounds or a driveway, but I pulled up next to another car and figured that’d be alright. There are grandstands on both sides of the track with separate entrances so I went to the backstretch where my reserved seats were.

Due to Covid there were temperature checks to get in the gate but that didn’t seem to add any real time to the wait. It was confusing how the reserved seats worked - I picked up my ticket and got my wristband, but the person at the reserved entrance said I needed another wristband to let me in there. After talking to multiple people I finally was pointed to a couple police officers in a small shed that gave me a wristband, sort of a strange arrangement.

I found a seat in the top row right in the middle. The reserved seats were really nice with full seatbacks and lots of legroom. The sightlines were really good, and I’m not sure there would really have been a bad seat in the house once you got about 5 rows up.

I had time to kill so I wandered around the Outlaws souvenir trailers and made a lap around the pit area. It was fenced off with chainlink so I was able to take a look at all the cars and haulers through the fence. There were UMP modifieds in the pits as well which I was excited to see, I thought it was just the Outlaws as a standalone event. I always love modified racing, even if it’s UMPs.

I circled around to the front stretch merchandise haulers and I bought a new World of Outlaws logo pin I didn’t have. Pins are about the only thing I collect, but I buy just about any new pin I run across at a racetrack. 

There was some construction equipment parked outside the track and I was able to walk right up to a road grader. Little known fact about me is that I was obsessed with construction equipment as a kid and I still get very easily sidetracked by it. I spent about 15 minutes on the phone with my brother talking about the particular mechanisms it had and how the hydraulic pistons were arranged. The fact that the blade is rotated with pistons and not gears was my fact of the day. There was also a combine harvesting corn across the street so I spent a few minutes just watching it work.

I got back to my seat in time for hotlaps. The track is a tight quarter mile paperclip with medium banked turns that are of a very small radius. It’s got real dark, tacky clay that barely kicked up any dust all night. I was very impressed with the surface and I always love me a bullring.

33 sprint cars and 14 modified signed in. They all did hot laps, the sprint cars qualified, then were the heats. Nothing crazy happened throughout. The track was pretty single grooved for most of the heat races but that’s not too surprising, tacky tracks like that can take a while to widen out. It did make an interesting contrast with the wingless sprint cars I’ve been watching the past several days. I definitely enjoy wingless sprints more on the whole, but really they’re both a ton of fun.

The track had some very interesting looking push trucks. They’re uniquely shaped and I later found out they were custom built for the track. They did much of the work, pushing off the sprint cars and also acting as vehicles for the track workers and as tow trucks. There were three of them, each a different color.

Feature time came and the World of Outlaws went first. The track widened out nicely by that point and they put on a great show. The wildest moment happened early on in the race. Jeff Swindell caught the bike going into turn 1 and started tumbling. The track in that turn is set up without a catch fence; the wall is of short concrete, basically a k-rail, and there’s large wooden billboards for advertising a few feet behind the concrete. When Swindell started to flip, he caught air and went straight over the wall and over the top of the billboard! The wing caught a chunk of the top corner of one of them and tore it off. He came to rest on his wheels behind the billboards, out of view of the grandstands, and up against the chainlink fence separating the track from the pit area. Apparently he was able to be pushed to his pit stall. It’s easily the craziest crash I’ve ever witnessed live. Not that I’m hoping for anyone in particular to crash, but it’s one of those things that if it’s going to happen I want to be there to see it and this sort of crash tumbling so high up and over the wall and billboards is just crazy.

The rest of the race was a lot of fun and got really enjoyable when the leaders ran into traffic. Being such a small tight track there’s not a lot of room to maneuver through the slower cars and it kept the race interesting to the end. Carson Short, a wingless racer who’s a regular with the USAC sprint, put a wing on and won his very first World of Outlaws race and it’s always fun to see a first time winner.

The modifieds rounded out the night and put on a good show as well. There wasn’t any track prep between features and the sprints had built up a really tall cushion right up against the wall. Only one modified was really able to run it effectively and took a solid lead. The second place car kept trying it and kept going too deep and hitting the cushion with the right rear, knocking the car to the left and slowing the momentum. The third place car seemed to have speed if he could avoid mistakes but kept jumping the cushion entirely, bicycling up on two wheels multiple times in the fluff up top. 

Late in the race a mid pack car spun on the exit of turn two. The car behind swerved low to avoid, forcing him into the car behind him, which climbed over his front tire and rolled over! A flip was entirely unexpected since the feature was pretty spread out and the care really couldn’t hold that much speed through the tight corners.

The event ended at a reasonable hour and I got out without any traffic difficulties. It was a great event overall, a professional and well-run facility that puts on a great show. I would happily come back, especially to see the USAC sprints and midgets. 
;


